{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 DATA DICTIONARY - SAMSUNG DATA FROM ACCELEROMETERS\
\
subject	30\
	Subject that performed the test\
		1..30 .Identifier for each subject participating in the test\
\
activity	6\
	Type of activity that was performed\
		WALKING\
		WALKING_UPSTAIRS\
		WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS\
		SITTING\
		STANDING\
		LAYING\
\
The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. \
\
Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). \
\
Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). \
\
These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  \
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.\
\
tBodyAcc-XYZ\
tGravityAcc-XYZ\
tBodyAccJerk-XYZ\
tBodyGyro-XYZ\
tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ\
tBodyAccMag\
tGravityAccMag\
tBodyAccJerkMag\
tBodyGyroMag\
tBodyGyroJerkMag\
fBodyAcc-XYZ\
fBodyAccJerk-XYZ\
fBodyGyro-XYZ\
fBodyAccMag\
fBodyAccJerkMag\
fBodyGyroMag\
fBodyGyroJerkMag\
\
The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: \
\
mean(): Mean value\
std(): Standard deviation\
\
All of these variables are then averaged for each subject and activity}